---
layout: post
title: "The Adler class 8 sewing machine - Table of Contents"
categories: [blog]
mathjax: false
image: /assets/2021-08-05-adler1/adler.jpg
---
The eagle has landed.

For my birthday last month, my kids got together and bought me a small Adler class 8 sewing machine.  "Adler" is German for "Eagle" - hence the tagline for this post.  Dürkopp-Adler is the company that made the machine.  "Class 8" is the model.

I don't make things out of cloth, but I do occasionally make (or want to make) small items out of leather.  I have (the remains of) a half a cow hide that I bought over twenty years ago that I make thingies from now and again.

The one thing I always hated about making things from leather was sewing pieces together.  That used to involve a hammer, a punch, a (thick) needle, a (thick) thread, a pair of pliers, and **lots** of cursing.  I learned to do it that way (minus the cursing) in a course in high school a **very** long time ago, but I never really got good with the needle.

Those days are over.  The little Adler does a **wonderful** job - but it isn't quite "ready for prime time" yet.

It needs a cleanup, and it needs a new base.  I haven't yet decided if I want to use the motor that came with it or just crank it by hand.  In any case, since documentation has been hard to come by I've decided that I will write up what I learn about operating and maintaining it, and collect what documents I can find in one place.

This is a list of all the things I do with and discover about the Adler:

0. [The Adler Class 8 sewing machine - Initial state](adler1) - In a word - filthy.
